# Everything you wanted to know about the blockchain
> PUTHAL, Deepak, et al. Everything you wanted to know about the blockchain: Its promise, components, processes, and problems. IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine, 2018, 7.4: 6-14.
> [Link to IEEE journal](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/aboutJournal.jsp?punumber=5962380)

## key sentences
* this article discuss the ins and outs of the blockchain fundamentals, its working, different consensus mechanisms, applications, challenges, and current trends.

## keyword & terms
* decentralized
* trusted third party
* immutable record
* UTXO(unused transaction outputs)

## summary
#### What is the blockchain?
* The blockchain is a public ledger that works like a log by keeping a record of all transactions in chronological order, secured by an appropriate consensus mechanism and providing

#### trusted 3rd party is to gurantee safe and secure, accurate delivery.
* what if the trusted party goes rogue? how can I always trust them?
* additional delay of using an intermediary

#### blockchain - pros
* immutability
* irreversibility
* decentralization
* persistence
* anonymity
#### blockchain - cons
* scalability problem - delay
* 51% attack problem - robust consensus

#### Core components
1. Asymmetric key cryptography for secure operation(transaction) of the blockchain. The blockchain network utlizes the capabilities of public key cryptography for secure operation of the blockchain with the presence of the digital wallet concept.
2. Transaction - P2P basis. takes place by means of file containing transfer information from one node to other, generated by a source node and broadcast to the entire network for validation.
3. Consensus Mechanism is always needed(essential!) for its integrity among untrusted nodes(preventing double-spending problem). i.e. blockchain platform cannot have a centralized party to regulate and resolve disputs or safeguard against security violations.

#### Transaction generation and validation
1. contents of transaction
    * input transactions - UTXOs
    * amount to be transferred
    * public key hash of the receiver - to identify sender and receiver(digital signature)
2. confirmatino of transaction
    * verfication of both transactions via signatures and ledger entry
3. claiming ownership by asymmetric key cryptography
4. consensus, mining, and block validation
5. network operation
    1. transaction broadcast
    2. transaction collection and verfication
    3. running the consensus protocols
    4. block acceptance and chain update
        1. accept the block
        2. if two miners find a valid solution at the same time, only the longest blockchain is considered valid
    5. earning incentives - coinbase transaction

#### classification of blockchain system
1. public blockchain
    * A public blockchain provides an open platform for people from various organizations and backgrounds to join, transact, and mine. these are also called permissionless blockchains. consensus is achieved by any of the decentralized consensus mechanisms, such as PoW, PoS. Of course, it is exposed to attaks, but the robust mechanism of PoW combined with cryptographic validation endures.
2. private blockchain
    * Facilitate the private sharing and exchange of data among a group of individuals or among multiple organizations, with mining controlled by one organization or selected individuals. also called as permissione blockchain. as the exsistence of controlling network access, its network more toward centralization.
3. consortium blockchain
    * Partially private and permissioned blockcain, where no single organizations is responsoble for consensus and block validation but rather a set of predetermined nodes.

#### consensus algorithm
1. PBFT(Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance Algorithm) - Hyperledger
    * proposed as a solution to the Byzantine Generals' Problem. When a new message is received, the current state and the message are fed together for computations to help the node reach a decision, and then broadcasted to the network. A majority of the decisions determines the consensus for the network.
2. PoW(Proof of Work) - Bitcoin
    * solve puzzle. conflict at a later stage is avoided by accepting the longest version of the chain available at any time - robustness.
3. PoS(Proof of Stake) - Ethereum
    * proposed to overcome the disadvantages of excessive power consumption of PoW. propose to buy cryptocurrency and use it as stake in the network. The stake is directly propotional to the chance of becoming the block validator. validator is randomly selected. the node producing valid blocks get incentives, but if their block is not included in the existing chain, they also lose some amount of their stake.

#### some factors for consensus algorithm
> looks ambiguous
1. Type of blockchain
2. Transaction rate
3. Scalability
4. Participation charges(PoS)
5. Trust condition

#### application and use cases
1. Asset Management
2. Real Estate
3. Finance
4. The IoT
5. Assisting Weddings
6. Health Care